"# Section with generic information about the study including title, description, publication details (if applicable) and contact details"																																																																																																																																											
# Study																																																																																																																																											
Comment[IDR Study Accession]	idr0028																																																																																																																																										
Study Title	RNAi screens for Rho GTPase regulators of cell shape and YAP/TAZ localisation in triple negative breast cancer.																																																																																																																																										
Study Type	high content screen																																																																																																																																										
Study Type Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Study Type Term Accession	EFO_0007550																																																																																																																																										
Study Description	In order to metastasize triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) must make dynamic changes in cell shape. The shape of all eukaryotic cells is regulated by Rho GTP Exchange Factors (RhoGEFs), which activate Rho-family GTPases in response to mechanical and informational cues. In contrast, Rho GTPase-activating proteins (RhoGAPs) inhibit Rho GTPases. However, which RhoGEFs and RhoGAPS couple TNBC cell shape to changes in their environment is very poorly understood. Moreover, whether the activity of particular RhoGEFs and RhoGAPs become dysregulated as cells evolve the ability to metastasise is not clear. Towards the ultimate goal of identifying RhoGEFs and RhoGAPs that are essential for TNBC metastasis, we performed an RNAi screen to isolate RhoGEFs and RhoGAPs that contribute to the morphogenesis of the highly metastatic TNBC cell line LM2, and its less-metastatic parental cell line MDA-MB-231. For ~6 million cells from each cell line we measured 127 different features following the depletion of 142 genes. Using a linear classifier scheme we also describe the morphological heterogeneity of each gene-depleted population.																																																																																																																																										
Study Organism	Homo sapiens																																																																																																																																										
Study Organism Term Source REF	NCBITaxon																																																																																																																																										
Study Organism Term Accession	NCBITaxon_9606																																																																																																																																										
Study Screens Number	4																																																																																																																																										
Study External URL																																																																																																																																											
Study Public Release Date	2016-11-01																																																																																																																																										
Study Version History	July 2017: Replaced cell line name of MDA-MB-231 with MDAMB231 in screens C and D to be inline with EFO cell line name. 																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Study Publication																																																																																																																																											
Study PubMed ID	28248929																																																																																																																																										
Study Publication Title	RNAi screens for Rho GTPase regulators of cell shape and YAP/TAZ localisation in triple negative breast cancer.																																																																																																																																										
Study Author List	Pascual-Vargas P, Cooper S, Sero J, Bousgouni V, Arias-Garcia M, Bakal C																																																																																																																																										
Study PMC ID	PMC5332010																																																																																																																																										
Study DOI	https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2017.18																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Study License and Data DOI																																																																																																																																											
Study License	CC BY 4.0																																																																																																																																										
Study License URL	https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/																																																																																																																																										
Study Copyright	Pascual Vargas et al																																																																																																																																										
Study Data Publisher	University of Dundee																																																																																																																																										
Study Data DOI	http://dx.doi.org/10.17867/10000104																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Study Contacts																																																																																																																																											
Study Person Last Name	Pascual Vargas																																																																																																																																										
Study Person First Name	Patricia																																																																																																																																										
Study Person Email	patricia.pascualvargas@icr.ac.uk																																																																																																																																										
Study Person Address	Institute of Cancer Research, Chester Beatty Laboratories, 237 Fulham Road, SW3 6JB, London, Umited Kingdom.																																																																																																																																										
Study Person Roles	submitter																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
Term Source Name	NCBITaxon	EFO	CMPO	FBbi																																																																																																																																							
Term Source URI	http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/cmpo/	http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/																																																																																																																																							
																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																											
"# Section containing all information relative to each screen in the study including materials used, protocols names and description, phenotype names and description. For multiple assays this section should be repeated."																																																																																																																																											
# Screen; this section should be repeated if a study contains multiple screens																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																											
Screen Number	1																																																																																																																																										
Comment[IDR Screen Name]	idr0028-pascualvargas-rhogtpases/screenA																																																																																																																																										
Screen Data Publisher	University of Dundee																																																																																																																																										
Screen Data DOI	http://dx.doi.org/10.17867/10000104A				
Screen Sample Type	cell
Screen Description	Human RhoGEF/RhoGAP siGenome siRNA screen on highly metastatic triple negative breast cancer cell line LM2																																																																																																																																										
Screen Size	Plates: 4	5D Images: 26880	Planes:107520	Average Image Dimension (XYZCT): 667 x 501 x 1 x 4 x 1	Total Tb: 0.03																																																																																																																																						
Screen Example Images																																																																																																																																											
Screen Imaging Method	spinning disk confocal microscopy																																																																																																																																										
Screen Imaging Method Term Source REF	Fbbi																																																																																																																																										
Screen Imaging Method Term Accession	FBbi_00000253																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Type	RNAi screen																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Term Accession	EFO_0007551																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type	primary screen																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type Term Accession	EFO_0007556																																																																																																																																										
Screen Comments	Annotations in library, processed and annotation files were updated on 3-6th Feb 2017 and in IDR on 9th Feb 2017.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
"# Library section. The library file should be supplied separately and it should contain  the reagents description including, at the absolute minimum: reagent ID, sequences and position in the layout (= plate + position in the plate)"																																																																																																																																											
Library File Name	idr0028-screenA-library.txt																																																																																																																																										
Library File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Library Type	siRNA library																																																																																																																																										
Library Type Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Library Type Term Accession	EFO_0007564																																																																																																																																										
Library Manufacturer	Dharmacon																																																																																																																																										
Library Version	siGenome																																																																																																																																										
Library Experimental Conditions																																																																																																																																											
Library Experimental Conditions Term Source REF																																																																																																																																											
Library Experimental Conditions Term Accession																																																																																																																																											
Quality Control Description	Pearson Correlations were applied to assess replicate plate reproducibilty and siRNA reproducibility.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Protocols																																																																																																																																											
Protocol Name	growth protocol	HCS library protocol	HCS image acquistion and feature extraction protocol	HCS data analysis protocol																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type	growth protocol	HCS library protocol	HCS image acquistion and feature extraction protocol	HCS data analysis protocol																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type Term Source REF	EFO	EFO	EFO	EFO																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type Term Accession	EFO_0003789	EFO_0007571	EFO_0007572	EFO_0007573																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Description	We seeded 1000 cells/well of LM2 and MDA-MB-231 cells in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated bovine serum (FBS) and 1% penicillin/streptomyocin. We seeded the cells in 384 well plates and incubated them for 48 hours at 37 C and supplemented with 5% CO2 in humidified incubators.	Overview of RNAi screening methodology. Two human RhoGEF and RhoGAP libraries were used: siGENOME and ONTARGETPlus (Dharmacon). Both libraries were made up of SMARTpools, where each gene is targeted by a pool of 4 different siRNA strands per siRNA. Each siRNA library was arrayed across 2 black, optically clear bottom, 384 well Cell Carrier plates (PerkinElmer). Individual siRNAs were arrayed in duplicate per plate, and each plate was screened in duplicate, resulting in 4 plates per screen per cell line: 1A, 1B, 2A and 2B. Day 0: Plating siRNAs. 40nl (0.08pmol) siRNA from the siGENOME and ONTARGETPlus libraries (stock concentration of 20uM) were arrayed using the acoustic liquid handler Echo 550 prior to transfection and kept at -80 C. Day 1: Reverse transfection. Pre-stamped siRNA plates were thawed at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes prior to use. Subsequently, 5ul of Opti-MEM Reduced Serum Media were added per well. 5 minutes later, 5ul of mix containing Opti-MEM and RNAimax reagent in a 125:1 ratio were added, and plates were spun at 1000 rpm for 1 minute. Plates were incubated at room temperature for 20 minutes, so as to allow siRNA-RNAimax complexes to form. Cells were then seeded at 1000 cells/well (30000 cells/ml) in 30ul DMEM (10% FBS, 1% penicillin/streptomyocin), resulting in a total volume of 40ul per well: 5ul Opti-MEM, 5ul of Opti-MEM and RNAimax mix (125:1) plus 30ul of cells. As positive controls LATS1 (Dharmacon cat # M-004632-00) and YAP (Dharmacon cat # L-012200-00) siRNA were introduced on columns 23 and 24 with a minimum of 4 wells per control per screen. LATS1 siRNA was used as a control for our ability to assess YAP/TAZ localisation, as in the absence of LATS1 YAP/TAZ nuclear localisation is expected to increase14 YAP siRNA was used as a control to assess our ability to monitor both YAP levels and localisation. As a control to assess our ability to transfect cells we used ECT2 siRNA (Dharmacon cat # L-006450-00, # M-006450-00) which results in multinucleate cells. YAP/TAZ nuclear translocation can be sensitive to cell density, and thus some siRNAs might affect YAP/TAZ localisation simply because they reduce cell numbers17. To account for density dependent effects cells were plated at increasing densities on columns 1, 2, 23 and 24. By performing a linear regression, or similar analysis on these samples users can identify the relationship between YAP/TAZ localisation and cell density. However, in these screens presented here no siRNAs had significant effects on cell number.  Mock transfected cells served as our negative controls, due to our previous observation that non-targeting siRNAs result in phenotypic changes (unpublished data).	Automated handling and processing of samples was performed using a Cell::Explorer robot station, using the PlateWorks software (Perkin Elmer). Cells were fixed 48 hours post transfection by addition of 40ul of warm 8% paraformaldehyde (final concentration 4%) for 15 minutes. Cells were then permeabilised with 0.1% Triton-X-100 in PBS for 10 minutes and blocked with 2% BSA for 2 hours. All antibody incubations were performed in solution containing 0.5% BSA, 0.01% Triton-X-100 dissolved in PBS in a 1:1000 ratio. Washes were carried out three fold by rinsing in PBS between steps using a Microplate Washer (Bio Tek). Antibodies were added sequentially to avoid cross-talk, with the primary antibody for YAP/TAZ being added first and left overnight. Staining procedures were continued in the following order with each antibody being left on for an hour and a half: secondary antibody for YAP/TAZ AlexaFluor 647, primary antibody for alpha tubulin, secondary antibody for alpha tubulin AlexaFluor 548, and Phalloidin 488 combined in the same step. Finally the nuclear stain Hoerscht was added for 15 minutes, upon which it was removed and 15ul of PBS were dispensed. All cells were imaged using an automated Opera HCS spinning-disk confocal microscope (Perkin Elmer) with 20x air lens. Four channels were used: Hoechst, Tubulin, YAP/TAZ, Actin. Images were processed and analysed using the Columbus 2.6.0. Software Platform (Perkin Elmer). To identify single cells, nuclei were segmented using Hoechst signal. The cytoplasm was subsequently segmented based on the identified nuclei utilising tubulin intensity. Cells touching the image border were filtered out.129 features describing intensity, morphological, and texture properties were extracted for each cell. Additionally the fraction of neighbouring cells was calculated. All features are given as the average feature value across all single cells for a given well of the screen. Moreover, using a linear classifier scheme we describe the morphological heterogeneity of each gene-depleted population.	As part of initial exploration of the data we identified siRNAs ("hits") that resulted in significantly different: (1) cell shapes; (2) YAP/TAZ ratio (YAP/TAZ activation); (3) and sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities normalised to nuclear area (hereafter referred to as 'total YAP/TAZ'). The sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities were normalised to nuclear area so as to account for nuclear size. Raw data obtained from the analysis performed by Columbus software for each plate, was normalised to each plate. Normalised values were then grouped per screen and then Z-scores were calculated using the control well average and standard deviation for each screen. A threshold of minimum 1.5 was used for selecting hits.																																																																																																																																							
																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																											
# Phenotypes																																																																																																																																											
Phenotype Name	Spindly	Large, spread	Triangular	Fan	Round, small	High nuclear YAP/TAZ	Low nuclear YAP/TAZ	High total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area	Low total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Description	elongated and typically have two protrusions	large area and are often circular	cells with three distinct protrusions	asymmetrically-shaped cells with nucleus to one side	low cell area and high roundness	High nuclear YAP/TAZ	Low nuclear YAP/TAZ	High total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area	Low total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Score Type	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Source REF	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Name	elongated cell phenotype	increased cell size phenotype	triangular shaped cell phenotype	fan-shaped cell phenotype	decreased cell size phenotype	increased level of polypetide in cell nucleus	decreased level of polypetide in cell nucleus	positive regulation of protein import into nucleus phenotype	negative regulation of protein import into nucleus phenotype																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Accession	CMPO_0000077	CMPO_0000128	CMPO_0000122	CMPO_0000428	CMPO_0000129	CMPO_0000433	CMPO_0000434	CMPO_0000436	CMPO_0000435																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Source REF	CMPO		CMPO		CMPO																																																																																																																																						
Phenotype Term Name	cell with projections		cell with projections		round cell phenotype																																																																																																																																						
Phenotype Term Accession	CMPO_0000071		CMPO_0000071		CMPO_0000118																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																											
# Raw Data Files																																																																																																																																											
Raw Image Data Format	TIFF																																																																																																																																										
Raw Image Organization	There are 2 replicates of 2 x 384 well plates per screen. Total plates per screen: 4. 28 fields were imaged per well.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Feature Level Data Files (give individual file details unless there is one file per well)																																																																																																																																											
Feature Level Data File Name	LM2_siGENOME_features.txt																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data File Description	Well averaged values for each feature for each well.																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data Column Name	Plate	Row	Column	Genes	Well Name	Number of Cells selected	Intensity Nucleus - Mean per Well	Nucleus Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Roundness - Mean per Well	Cell Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Cell  Roundness - Mean per Well	Cell Width [um] - Mean per Well	Cell Length [um] - Mean per Well	Cell Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Nucleus  Width [um] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Length [um] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Roundness - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Width [um] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Length [um] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm  Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Membrane Region (Protrusions Area) [um_] - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ - Mean per Well	Ring Region YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Whole cell YAP/TAZ - Mean per Well	Cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ   - Mean per Well	Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio  - Mean per Well	Log10 of Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio  - Mean per Well	Cell Area to Whole Cell YAP/TAZ   Ratio - Mean per Well	Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear  Intensity to Nuclear Area Ratio - Mean per Well	Log10 of Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Nuclear Area Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear Area to Whole Cell YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley  0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Correlation 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Contrast 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Sum Variance 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Homogeneity 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Gabor Actin Min - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Gabor Actin Max - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Hoechst- Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Correlation 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Contrast 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Sum Variance 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Homogeneity 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Correlation 1 px Actin - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Contrast 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Sum Variance 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Homogeneity 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px  Hoechst- Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Dark  - Mean per Well	Membrane Region 1 Area [px_] - Mean per Well	Membrane Region 2 Area [px_] - Mean per Well	Neighbour Fraction - Mean per Well	Number of cells classified as Spindly	Number of cells classified as Large	Number of cells classified as Triangular	Number of cells classified as Fan	Number of cells classified as Small, round.	Number of Analyzed Fields
Feature Level Data Column Description	The name of the plate the data comes from	The row position of the well on the plate	The column position of the well on the plate	Gene name or cells for wild-type	Position in plate	Number of cells chosen to analyse post filtering	Hoescht intensity	Number of pixels in nucleus. Values are directly proportional to area.	(Nuclear Perimeter*Nuclear Perimeter)/(4*pi*area) - Values are directly proportional to nuclear roundness.	Number of pixels in cell segment delimitated using the tubulin stain. Values are directly proportional to cell area.	(Cell Perimeter*Cell Perimeter)/(4*pi*area). Values are directly proportional to cell roundness.	Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the cell edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the cell edge. Values are directly proportional to cell width.	Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the cell edge. Values are directly proportional to cell length.	Cell width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide cells, while lower values represent thinner and longer cells.	Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the nucleus edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the nucleus edge. Values are directly proportional to nuclear width.	Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the nucleus edge.Values are directly proportional to nuclear length.	Nucleus width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide nuclei, while lower values represent thinner and longer nuclei.	Number of pixels in cell segment delimitated using the tubulin stain. Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm area.	(Cytoplasm Perimeter*Cytoplasm Perimeter)/(4*pi*area) Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm roundness.	Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the cytoplasm edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the cytoplasm edge. Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm width.	Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the cytoplasm edge.Valyes are directly proportional to cytoplasm length.	Cytoplasm width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide cytoplasms, while lower values represent thinner and longer cytoplasms.	Membrane region mask was defined as a mask that extends slightly beyond the cytoplasm and encompasses a percentage of the cytoplasm. Values are directly proportional to protrusion area.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Nuclear Region.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Ring Region (The Ring Region was defined as a mask around the nuclear segment contained within the cytoplasm segment i.e:the perinuclear region, and it was calculated as a percentage of the distance from the centroid of the cell to the cytoplasm edge.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Whole Cell	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Cytoplasm Region	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Eroded Nuclear Region	Values above 1 indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas values below 1 indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ.	Positive values indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas negative numbers indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ	Relationship between Cell Area and total YAP/TAZ	Values above 1 indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas values below 1 indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ.	Relationship between nuclear Hoechst intensity and nuclear area.	Positive values indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas negative numbers indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ	Relationship between Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ intensity and Nuclear Area	Relationship between Nuclear Area and Whole Cell YAP/TAZ stain	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the tubulin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the tubulin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of ridges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of valley found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the cytoplasm the  tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Minimum values of a wavelet kernel projected at 8 different angles for the actin cytoskeleton	Maximum values of a wavelet kernel projected at 8 different angles for the actin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the nucleus between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the nucleus between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small  ridgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of edgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of valleys found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  saddles found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of edgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of valleys found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  saddles found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the actin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the actin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  holes found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  valleys found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the nucleus between pixels in proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the nucleus between pixels in  proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of ridges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of valley found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small  ridgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Value is directly proportional to the defined Membrane Region 1 area, which encompasses a thin area of the membrane which starts at the membrane edge.	Value is directly proportional to the defined Membrane Region 2 area, which goes slightly beyond the membrane edge.	1-((Membrane Region 1)/(2*Membrane Region 2)) a high value represents close proximity between cells.	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the elongated, Spindly phenotype.	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Large, spread, often circular phenotype.	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Triangular phenotype (three protrusions).	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Fan phenotype (asymmetric with nucleus to one side).	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Small, round phenotype.	Number of fields analysed.
																																																																																																																																											
#  Processed Data Files																																																																																																																																											
Processed Data File Name	idr0028-screenA-processed.txt																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data File Description	Wells where the z-score is over 1.5 for each cell shape, the logarithmic of the ratio of nuclear region YAP/TAZ intensity to ring region YAP/TAZ intensity, and sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities normalised to nuclear area for each cell line. The sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities were normalised to nuclear area so as to account for nuclear size. Raw data was normalised to the plate and then Z-scores were calculated using the control well average and standard deviation for each screen.																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data Column Name	Plate	Well	Plate_Well	siRNA Identifier	Gene Identifier	Gene Symbol	Z-score (Spindly)	Z-score (Large, spread)	Z-score (Triangular)	Z-score (Fan)	Z-score (Round, small)	Z-score (High nuclear YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (Low nuclear YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (High total YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (Low total YAP/TAZ)	Has Phenotype	Phenoptye Annotation Level	Phenotype 1	Phenotype 2	Phenotype 3	Phenotype 4	Phenotype 5	Phenotype 6	Phenotype 7	Phenotype 8	Phenotype 9																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Type	location	location	location	reagent identifier	gene identifier	gene symbol	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	other	other	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Annotation Level							well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well			well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Description	The plate the result comes from	The well the result comes from	A combination of the plate and well, to enable linking with the library file.	Name of the siRNA used	The NCIB Entrez Gene Identifier for the target gene	The gene symbol for the target gene	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	Whether there is a phenotype associated with the entity in the row.	The level of entity that is annotated with the phenotype.	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Link To Library File	Plate_Well																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
Screen Number	2																																																																																																																																										
Comment[IDR Screen Name]	idr0028-pascualvargas-rhogtpases/screenB																																																																																																																																										
Screen Data Publisher	University of Dundee																																																																																																																																										
Screen Data DOI	http://dx.doi.org/10.17867/10000104B			
Screen Sample Type	cell
Screen Description	Human RhoGEF/RhoGAP OnTargetPlus siRNA screen on highly metastatic triple negative breast cancer cell line LM2																																																																																																																																										
Screen Size	Plates: 4	5D Images: 42644	Planes: 170576	Average Image Dimension (XYZCT): 667 x 500 x 1 x 4 x 1	Total Tb: 0.05																																																																																																																																						
Screen Example Images	https://idr.openmicroscopy.org/webclient/?show=well-1247843	https://idr.openmicroscopy.org/webclient/img_detail/2898590/	LM2_ONTARGETPlus_1A;M21																																																																																																																																								
Screen Imaging Method	spinning disk confocal microscopy																																																																																																																																										
Screen Imaging Method Term Source REF	Fbbi																																																																																																																																										
Screen Imaging Method Term Accession	FBbi_00000253																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Type	RNAi screen																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Term Accession	EFO_0007551																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type	primary screen																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type Term Accession	EFO_0007556																																																																																																																																										
Screen Comments																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																											
"# Library section. The library file should be supplied separately and it should contain  the reagents description including, at the absolute minimum: reagent ID, sequences and position in the layout (= plate + position in the plate)"																																																																																																																																											
Library File Name	idr0028-screenB-library.txt																																																																																																																																										
Library File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Library Type	siRNA library																																																																																																																																										
Library Type Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Library Type Term Accession	EFO_0007564																																																																																																																																										
Library Manufacturer	Dharmacon																																																																																																																																										
Library Version	ON-TARGETplus																																																																																																																																										
Library Experimental Conditions																																																																																																																																											
Library Experimental Conditions Term Source REF																																																																																																																																											
Library Experimental Conditions Term Accession																																																																																																																																											
Quality Control Description	Pearson Correlations were applied to assess replicate plate reproducibilty and siRNA reproducibility.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Protocols																																																																																																																																											
Protocol Name	growth protocol	HCS library protocol	HCS image acquistion and feature extraction protocol	HCS data analysis protocol																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type	growth protocol	HCS library protocol	HCS image acquistion and feature extraction protocol	HCS data analysis protocol																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type Term Source REF	EFO	EFO	EFO	EFO																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type Term Accession	EFO_0003789	EFO_0007571	EFO_0007572	EFO_0007573																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Description	We seeded 1000 cells/well of LM2 and MDA-MB-231 cells in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated bovine serum (FBS) and 1% penicillin/streptomyocin. We seeded the cells in 384 well plates and incubated them for 48 hours at 37 C and supplemented with 5% CO2 in humidified incubators.	Overview of RNAi screening methodology. Two human RhoGEF and RhoGAP libraries were used: siGENOME and ONTARGETPlus (Dharmacon). Both libraries were made up of SMARTpools, where each gene is targeted by a pool of 4 different siRNA strands per siRNA. Each siRNA library was arrayed across 2 black, optically clear bottom, 384 well Cell Carrier plates (PerkinElmer). Individual siRNAs were arrayed in duplicate per plate, and each plate was screened in duplicate, resulting in 4 plates per screen per cell line: 1A, 1B, 2A and 2B. Day 0: Plating siRNAs. 40nl (0.08pmol) siRNA from the siGENOME and ONTARGETPlus libraries (stock concentration of 20uM) were arrayed using the acoustic liquid handler Echo 550 prior to transfection and kept at -80 C. Day 1: Reverse transfection. Pre-stamped siRNA plates were thawed at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes prior to use. Subsequently, 5ul of Opti-MEM Reduced Serum Media were added per well. 5 minutes later, 5ul of mix containing Opti-MEM and RNAimax reagent in a 125:1 ratio were added, and plates were spun at 1000 rpm for 1 minute. Plates were incubated at room temperature for 20 minutes, so as to allow siRNA-RNAimax complexes to form. Cells were then seeded at 1000 cells/well (30000 cells/ml) in 30ul DMEM (10% FBS, 1% penicillin/streptomyocin), resulting in a total volume of 40ul per well: 5ul Opti-MEM, 5ul of Opti-MEM and RNAimax mix (125:1) plus 30ul of cells. As positive controls LATS1 (Dharmacon cat # M-004632-00) and YAP (Dharmacon cat # L-012200-00) siRNA were introduced on columns 23 and 24 with a minimum of 4 wells per control per screen. LATS1 siRNA was used as a control for our ability to assess YAP/TAZ localisation, as in the absence of LATS1 YAP/TAZ nuclear localisation is expected to increase14 YAP siRNA was used as a control to assess our ability to monitor both YAP levels and localisation. As a control to assess our ability to transfect cells we used ECT2 siRNA (Dharmacon cat # L-006450-00, # M-006450-00) which results in multinucleate cells. YAP/TAZ nuclear translocation can be sensitive to cell density, and thus some siRNAs might affect YAP/TAZ localisation simply because they reduce cell numbers17. To account for density dependent effects cells were plated at increasing densities on columns 1, 2, 23 and 24. By performing a linear regression, or similar analysis on these samples users can identify the relationship between YAP/TAZ localisation and cell density. However, in these screens presented here no siRNAs had significant effects on cell number.  Mock transfected cells served as our negative controls, due to our previous observation that non-targeting siRNAs result in phenotypic changes (unpublished data).	Automated handling and processing of samples was performed using a Cell::Explorer robot station, using the PlateWorks software (Perkin Elmer). Cells were fixed 48 hours post transfection by addition of 40ul of warm 8% paraformaldehyde (final concentration 4%) for 15 minutes. Cells were then permeabilised with 0.1% Triton-X-100 in PBS for 10 minutes and blocked with 2% BSA for 2 hours. All antibody incubations were performed in solution containing 0.5% BSA, 0.01% Triton-X-100 dissolved in PBS in a 1:1000 ratio. Washes were carried out three fold by rinsing in PBS between steps using a Microplate Washer (Bio Tek). Antibodies were added sequentially to avoid cross-talk, with the primary antibody for YAP/TAZ being added first and left overnight. Staining procedures were continued in the following order with each antibody being left on for an hour and a half: secondary antibody for YAP/TAZ AlexaFluor 647, primary antibody for alpha tubulin, secondary antibody for alpha tubulin AlexaFluor 548, and Phalloidin 488 combined in the same step. Finally the nuclear stain Hoerscht was added for 15 minutes, upon which it was removed and 15ul of PBS were dispensed. All cells were imaged using an automated Opera HCS spinning-disk confocal microscope (Perkin Elmer) with 20x air lens. Four channels were used: Hoechst, Tubulin, YAP/TAZ, Actin. Images were processed and analysed using the Columbus 2.6.0. Software Platform (Perkin Elmer). To identify single cells, nuclei were segmented using Hoechst signal. The cytoplasm was subsequently segmented based on the identified nuclei utilising tubulin intensity. Cells touching the image border were filtered out.129 features describing intensity, morphological, and texture properties were extracted for each cell. Additionally the fraction of neighbouring cells was calculated. All features are given as the average feature value across all single cells for a given well of the screen. Moreover, using a linear classifier scheme we describe the morphological heterogeneity of each gene-depleted population.	As part of initial exploration of the data we identified siRNAs ("hits") that resulted in significantly different: (1) cell shapes; (2) YAP/TAZ ratio (YAP/TAZ activation); (3) and sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities normalised to nuclear area (hereafter referred to as 'total YAP/TAZ'). The sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities were normalised to nuclear area so as to account for nuclear size. Raw data obtained from the analysis performed by Columbus software for each plate, was normalised to each plate. Normalised values were then grouped per screen and then Z-scores were calculated using the control well average and standard deviation for each screen. A threshold of minimum 1.5 was used for selecting hits.																																																																																																																																							
																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																											
# Phenotypes																																																																																																																																											
Phenotype Name	Spindly	Large, spread	Triangular	Fan	Round, small	High nuclear YAP/TAZ	Low nuclear YAP/TAZ	High total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area	Low total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Description	elongated and typically have two protrusions	large area and are often circular	cells with three distinct protrusions	asymmetrically-shaped cells with nucleus to one side	low cell area and high roundness	High nuclear YAP/TAZ	Low nuclear YAP/TAZ	High total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area	Low total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Score Type	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Source REF	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Name	elongated cell phenotype	increased cell size phenotype	triangular shaped cell phenotype	fan-shaped cell phenotype	decreased cell size phenotype	increased level of polypetide in cell nucleus	decreased level of polypetide in cell nucleus	positive regulation of protein import into nucleus phenotype	negative regulation of protein import into nucleus phenotype																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Accession	CMPO_0000077	CMPO_0000128	CMPO_0000122	CMPO_0000428	CMPO_0000129	CMPO_0000433	CMPO_0000434	CMPO_0000436	CMPO_0000435																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Source REF	CMPO		CMPO		CMPO																																																																																																																																						
Phenotype Term Name	cell with projections		cell with projections		round cell phenotype																																																																																																																																						
Phenotype Term Accession	CMPO_0000071		CMPO_0000071		CMPO_0000118																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																											
# Raw Data Files																																																																																																																																											
Raw Image Data Format	TIFF																																																																																																																																										
Raw Image Organization	There are 2 replicates of 2 x 384 well plates per screen. Total plates per screen: 4. 28 fields were imaged per well.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Feature Level Data Files (give individual file details unless there is one file per well)																																																																																																																																											
Feature Level Data File Name	LM2_ONTARGETPlus_features.txt																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data File Description	Well averaged values for each feature for each well.																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data Column Name	Plate	Row	Column	Genes	Well Name	Number of Cells selected	Intensity Nucleus - Mean per Well	Nucleus Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Roundness - Mean per Well	Cell Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Cell  Roundness - Mean per Well	Cell Width [um] - Mean per Well	Cell Length [um] - Mean per Well	Cell Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Nucleus  Width [um] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Length [um] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Roundness - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Width [um] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Length [um] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm  Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Membrane Region (Protrusions Area) [um_] - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ - Mean per Well	Ring Region YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Whole cell YAP/TAZ - Mean per Well	Cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ   - Mean per Well	Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio  - Mean per Well	Log10 of Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio  - Mean per Well	Cell Area to Whole Cell YAP/TAZ   Ratio - Mean per Well	Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear  Intensity to Nuclear Area Ratio - Mean per Well	Log10 of Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Nuclear Area Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear Area to Whole Cell YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley  0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Correlation 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Contrast 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Sum Variance 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Homogeneity 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Gabor Actin Min - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Gabor Actin Max - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Hoechst- Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Correlation 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Contrast 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Sum Variance 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Homogeneity 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Correlation 1 px Actin - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Contrast 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Sum Variance 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Homogeneity 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px  Hoechst- Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Dark  - Mean per Well	Membrane Region 1 Area [px_] - Mean per Well	Membrane Region 2 Area [px_] - Mean per Well	Neighbour Fraction - Mean per Well	Number of cells classified as Spindly	Number of cells classified as Large	Number of cells classified as Triangular	Number of cells classified as Fan	Number of cells classified as Small, round.	Number of Analyzed Fields
Feature Level Data Column Description	The name of the plate the data comes from	The row position of the well on the plate	The column position of the well on the plate	Gene name or cells for wild-type	Position in plate	Number of cells chosen to analyse post filtering	Hoescht intensity	Number of pixels in nucleus. Values are directly proportional to area.	(Nuclear Perimeter*Nuclear Perimeter)/(4*pi*area) - Values are directly proportional to nuclear roundness.	Number of pixels in cell segment delimitated using the tubulin stain. Values are directly proportional to cell area.	(Cell Perimeter*Cell Perimeter)/(4*pi*area). Values are directly proportional to cell roundness.	Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the cell edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the cell edge. Values are directly proportional to cell width.			Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the cell edge. Values are directly proportional to cell length.			Cell width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide cells, while lower values represent thinner and longer cells.			Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the nucleus edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the nucleus edge. Values are directly proportional to nuclear width.			Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the nucleus edge.Values are directly proportional to nuclear length.			Nucleus width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide nuclei, while lower values represent thinner and longer nuclei.	Number of pixels in cell segment delimitated using the tubulin stain. Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm area.	(Cytoplasm Perimeter*Cytoplasm Perimeter)/(4*pi*area) Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm roundness.	Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the cytoplasm edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the cytoplasm edge. Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm width.			Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the cytoplasm edge.Valyes are directly proportional to cytoplasm length.			Cytoplasm width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide cytoplasms, while lower values represent thinner and longer cytoplasms.	Membrane region mask was defined as a mask that extends slightly beyond the cytoplasm and encompasses a percentage of the cytoplasm. Values are directly proportional to protrusion area.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Nuclear Region.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Ring Region (The Ring Region was defined as a mask around the nuclear segment contained within the cytoplasm segment i.e:the perinuclear region, and it was calculated as a percentage of the distance from the centroid of the cell to the cytoplasm edge.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Whole Cell	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Cytoplasm Region	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Eroded Nuclear Region	Values above 1 indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas values below 1 indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ.			Positive values indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas negative numbers indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ	Relationship between Cell Area and total YAP/TAZ	Values above 1 indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas values below 1 indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ.	Relationship between nuclear Hoechst intensity and nuclear area.	Positive values indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas negative numbers indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ	Relationship between Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ intensity and Nuclear Area	Relationship between Nuclear Area and Whole Cell YAP/TAZ stain	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the tubulin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the tubulin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of ridges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of valley found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the cytoplasm the  tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Minimum values of a wavelet kernel projected at 8 different angles for the actin cytoskeleton	Maximum values of a wavelet kernel projected at 8 different angles for the actin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the nucleus between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the nucleus between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small  ridgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of edgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of valleys found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  saddles found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of edgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of valleys found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  saddles found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the actin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the actin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  holes found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  valleys found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the nucleus between pixels in proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the nucleus between pixels in  proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of ridges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of valley found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small  ridgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Value is directly proportional to the defined Membrane Region 1 area, which encompasses a thin area of the membrane which starts at the membrane edge.			Value is directly proportional to the defined Membrane Region 2 area, which goes slightly beyond the membrane edge.	1-((Membrane Region 1)/(2*Membrane Region 2)) a high value represents close proximity between cells.	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the elongated, Spindly phenotype.			Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Large, spread, often circular phenotype.	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Triangular phenotype (three protrusions).	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Fan phenotype (asymmetric with nucleus to one side).	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Small, round phenotype.	Number of fields analysed.
																																																																																																																																											
#  Processed Data Files																																																																																																																																											
Processed Data File Name	idr0028-screenB-processed.txt																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data File Description	Wells where the z-score is over 1.5 for each cell shape, the logarithmic of the ratio of nuclear region YAP/TAZ intensity to ring region YAP/TAZ intensity, and sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities normalised to nuclear area for each cell line. The sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities were normalised to nuclear area so as to account for nuclear size. Raw data was normalised to the plate and then Z-scores were calculated using the control well average and standard deviation for each screen.																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data Column Name	Plate	Well	Plate_Well	siRNA Identifier	Gene Identifier	Gene Symbol	Z-score (Spindly)	Z-score (Large, spread)	Z-score (Triangular)	Z-score (Fan)	Z-score (Round, small)	Z-score (High nuclear YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (Low nuclear YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (High total YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (Low total YAP/TAZ)	Has Phenotype	Phenoptye Annotation Level	Phenotype 1	Phenotype 2	Phenotype 3	Phenotype 4	Phenotype 5	Phenotype 6	Phenotype 7	Phenotype 8	Phenotype 9																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Type	location	location	location	reagent identifier	gene identifier	gene symbol	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	other	other	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Annotation Level							well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well			well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Description	The plate the result comes from	The well the result comes from	A combination of the plate and well, to enable linking with the library file.	Name of the siRNA used	The NCIB Entrez Gene Identifier for the target gene	The gene symbol for the target gene	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	Whether there is a phenotype associated with the entity in the row.	The level of entity that is annotated with the phenotype.	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Link To Library File	Plate_Well																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
Screen Number	3																																																																																																																																										
Comment[IDR Screen Name]	idr0028-pascualvargas-rhogtpases/screenC																																																																																																																																										
Screen Data Publisher	University of Dundee																																																																																																																																										
Screen Data DOI	http://dx.doi.org/10.17867/10000104C			
Screen Sample Type	cell
Screen Description	Human RhoGEF/RhoGAP siGenome siRNA screen on triple negative breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231																																																																																																																																										
Screen Size	Plates: 4	5D Images: 42700	Planes: 170800	Average Image Dimension (XYZCT): 667 x 500 x 1 x 4 x 1	Total Tb: 0.05																																																																																																																																						
Screen Example Images																																																																																																																																											
Screen Imaging Method	spinning disk confocal microscopy																																																																																																																																										
Screen Imaging Method Term Source REF	Fbbi																																																																																																																																										
Screen Imaging Method Term Accession	FBbi_00000253																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Type	RNAi screen																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Term Accession	EFO_0007551																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type	primary screen																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type Term Accession	EFO_0007556																																																																																																																																										
Screen Comments	Annotations in library, processed and annotation files were updated on 3-6th Feb 2017 and in IDR on 9th Feb 2017.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
"# Library section. The library file should be supplied separately and it should contain  the reagents description including, at the absolute minimum: reagent ID, sequences and position in the layout (= plate + position in the plate)"																																																																																																																																											
Library File Name	idr0028-screenC-library.txt																																																																																																																																										
Library File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Library Type	siRNA library																																																																																																																																										
Library Type Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Library Type Term Accession	EFO_0007564																																																																																																																																										
Library Manufacturer	Dharmacon																																																																																																																																										
Library Version	siGenome																																																																																																																																										
Library Experimental Conditions																																																																																																																																											
Library Experimental Conditions Term Source REF																																																																																																																																											
Library Experimental Conditions Term Accession																																																																																																																																											
Quality Control Description	Pearson Correlations were applied to assess replicate plate reproducibilty and siRNA reproducibility.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Protocols																																																																																																																																											
Protocol Name	growth protocol	HCS library protocol	HCS image acquistion and feature extraction protocol	HCS data analysis protocol																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type	growth protocol	HCS library protocol	HCS image acquistion and feature extraction protocol	HCS data analysis protocol																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type Term Source REF	EFO	EFO	EFO	EFO																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type Term Accession	EFO_0003789	EFO_0007571	EFO_0007572	EFO_0007573																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Description	We seeded 1000 cells/well of LM2 and MDA-MB-231 cells in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated bovine serum (FBS) and 1% penicillin/streptomyocin. We seeded the cells in 384 well plates and incubated them for 48 hours at 37 C and supplemented with 5% CO2 in humidified incubators.	Overview of RNAi screening methodology. Two human RhoGEF and RhoGAP libraries were used: siGENOME and ONTARGETPlus (Dharmacon). Both libraries were made up of SMARTpools, where each gene is targeted by a pool of 4 different siRNA strands per siRNA. Each siRNA library was arrayed across 2 black, optically clear bottom, 384 well Cell Carrier plates (PerkinElmer). Individual siRNAs were arrayed in duplicate per plate, and each plate was screened in duplicate, resulting in 4 plates per screen per cell line: 1A, 1B, 2A and 2B. Day 0: Plating siRNAs. 40nl (0.08pmol) siRNA from the siGENOME and ONTARGETPlus libraries (stock concentration of 20uM) were arrayed using the acoustic liquid handler Echo 550 prior to transfection and kept at -80 C. Day 1: Reverse transfection. Pre-stamped siRNA plates were thawed at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes prior to use. Subsequently, 5ul of Opti-MEM Reduced Serum Media were added per well. 5 minutes later, 5ul of mix containing Opti-MEM and RNAimax reagent in a 125:1 ratio were added, and plates were spun at 1000 rpm for 1 minute. Plates were incubated at room temperature for 20 minutes, so as to allow siRNA-RNAimax complexes to form. Cells were then seeded at 1000 cells/well (30000 cells/ml) in 30ul DMEM (10% FBS, 1% penicillin/streptomyocin), resulting in a total volume of 40ul per well: 5ul Opti-MEM, 5ul of Opti-MEM and RNAimax mix (125:1) plus 30ul of cells. As positive controls LATS1 (Dharmacon cat # M-004632-00) and YAP (Dharmacon cat # L-012200-00) siRNA were introduced on columns 23 and 24 with a minimum of 4 wells per control per screen. LATS1 siRNA was used as a control for our ability to assess YAP/TAZ localisation, as in the absence of LATS1 YAP/TAZ nuclear localisation is expected to increase14 YAP siRNA was used as a control to assess our ability to monitor both YAP levels and localisation. As a control to assess our ability to transfect cells we used ECT2 siRNA (Dharmacon cat # L-006450-00, # M-006450-00) which results in multinucleate cells. YAP/TAZ nuclear translocation can be sensitive to cell density, and thus some siRNAs might affect YAP/TAZ localisation simply because they reduce cell numbers17. To account for density dependent effects cells were plated at increasing densities on columns 1, 2, 23 and 24. By performing a linear regression, or similar analysis on these samples users can identify the relationship between YAP/TAZ localisation and cell density. However, in these screens presented here no siRNAs had significant effects on cell number.  Mock transfected cells served as our negative controls, due to our previous observation that non-targeting siRNAs result in phenotypic changes (unpublished data).			Automated handling and processing of samples was performed using a Cell::Explorer robot station, using the PlateWorks software (Perkin Elmer). Cells were fixed 48 hours post transfection by addition of 40ul of warm 8% paraformaldehyde (final concentration 4%) for 15 minutes. Cells were then permeabilised with 0.1% Triton-X-100 in PBS for 10 minutes and blocked with 2% BSA for 2 hours. All antibody incubations were performed in solution containing 0.5% BSA, 0.01% Triton-X-100 dissolved in PBS in a 1:1000 ratio. Washes were carried out three fold by rinsing in PBS between steps using a Microplate Washer (Bio Tek). Antibodies were added sequentially to avoid cross-talk, with the primary antibody for YAP/TAZ being added first and left overnight. Staining procedures were continued in the following order with each antibody being left on for an hour and a half: secondary antibody for YAP/TAZ AlexaFluor 647, primary antibody for alpha tubulin, secondary antibody for alpha tubulin AlexaFluor 548, and Phalloidin 488 combined in the same step. Finally the nuclear stain Hoerscht was added for 15 minutes, upon which it was removed and 15ul of PBS were dispensed. All cells were imaged using an automated Opera HCS spinning-disk confocal microscope (Perkin Elmer) with 20x air lens. Four channels were used: Hoechst, Tubulin, YAP/TAZ, Actin. Images were processed and analysed using the Columbus 2.6.0. Software Platform (Perkin Elmer). To identify single cells, nuclei were segmented using Hoechst signal. The cytoplasm was subsequently segmented based on the identified nuclei utilising tubulin intensity. Cells touching the image border were filtered out.129 features describing intensity, morphological, and texture properties were extracted for each cell. Additionally the fraction of neighbouring cells was calculated. All features are given as the average feature value across all single cells for a given well of the screen. Moreover, using a linear classifier scheme we describe the morphological heterogeneity of each gene-depleted population.			As part of initial exploration of the data we identified siRNAs ("hits") that resulted in significantly different: (1) cell shapes; (2) YAP/TAZ ratio (YAP/TAZ activation); (3) and sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities normalised to nuclear area (hereafter referred to as 'total YAP/TAZ'). The sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities were normalised to nuclear area so as to account for nuclear size. Raw data obtained from the analysis performed by Columbus software for each plate, was normalised to each plate. Normalised values were then grouped per screen and then Z-scores were calculated using the control well average and standard deviation for each screen. A threshold of minimum 1.5 was used for selecting hits.																																																																																																																																							
																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																											
# Phenotypes																																																																																																																																											
Phenotype Name	Spindly	Large, spread	Triangular	Fan	Round, small	High nuclear YAP/TAZ	Low nuclear YAP/TAZ	High total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area	Low total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Description	elongated and typically have two protrusions	large area and are often circular	cells with three distinct protrusions	asymmetrically-shaped cells with nucleus to one side	low cell area and high roundness	High nuclear YAP/TAZ	Low nuclear YAP/TAZ	High total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area	Low total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Score Type	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Source REF	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Name	elongated cell phenotype	increased cell size phenotype	triangular shaped cell phenotype	fan-shaped cell phenotype	decreased cell size phenotype	increased level of polypetide in cell nucleus	decreased level of polypetide in cell nucleus	positive regulation of protein import into nucleus phenotype	negative regulation of protein import into nucleus phenotype																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Accession	CMPO_0000077	CMPO_0000128	CMPO_0000122	CMPO_0000428	CMPO_0000129	CMPO_0000433	CMPO_0000434	CMPO_0000436	CMPO_0000435																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Source REF	CMPO		CMPO		CMPO																																																																																																																																						
Phenotype Term Name	cell with projections		cell with projections		round cell phenotype																																																																																																																																						
Phenotype Term Accession	CMPO_0000071		CMPO_0000071		CMPO_0000118																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																											
# Raw Data Files																																																																																																																																											
Raw Image Data Format	TIFF																																																																																																																																										
Raw Image Organization	There are 2 replicates of 2 x 384 well plates per screen. Total plates per screen: 4. 28 fields were imaged per well.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Feature Level Data Files (give individual file details unless there is one file per well)																																																																																																																																											
Feature Level Data File Name	MDA-MB-231_siGENOME_features.txt																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data File Description	Well averaged values for each feature for each well.																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data Column Name	Plate	Row	Column	Genes	Well Name	Number of Cells selected	Intensity Nucleus - Mean per Well	Nucleus Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Roundness - Mean per Well	Cell Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Cell  Roundness - Mean per Well	Cell Width [um] - Mean per Well	Cell Length [um] - Mean per Well	Cell Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Nucleus  Width [um] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Length [um] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Roundness - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Width [um] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Length [um] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm  Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Membrane Region (Protrusions Area) [um_] - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ - Mean per Well	Ring Region YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Whole cell YAP/TAZ - Mean per Well	Cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ   - Mean per Well	Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio  - Mean per Well	Log10 of Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio  - Mean per Well	Cell Area to Whole Cell YAP/TAZ   Ratio - Mean per Well	Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear  Intensity to Nuclear Area Ratio - Mean per Well	Log10 of Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Nuclear Area Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear Area to Whole Cell YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley  0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Correlation 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Contrast 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Sum Variance 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Homogeneity 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Gabor Actin Min - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Gabor Actin Max - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Hoechst- Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Correlation 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Contrast 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Sum Variance 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Homogeneity 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Correlation 1 px Actin - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Contrast 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Sum Variance 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Homogeneity 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px  Hoechst- Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Dark  - Mean per Well	Membrane Region 1 Area [px_] - Mean per Well	Membrane Region 2 Area [px_] - Mean per Well	Neighbour Fraction - Mean per Well	Number of cells classified as Spindly	Number of cells classified as Large	Number of cells classified as Triangular	Number of cells classified as Fan	Number of cells classified as Small, round.	Number of Analyzed Fields
Feature Level Data Column Description	The name of the plate the data comes from	The row position of the well on the plate	The column position of the well on the plate	Gene name or cells for wild-type	Position in plate	Number of cells chosen to analyse post filtering	Hoescht intensity	Number of pixels in nucleus. Values are directly proportional to area.	(Nuclear Perimeter*Nuclear Perimeter)/(4*pi*area) - Values are directly proportional to nuclear roundness.	Number of pixels in cell segment delimitated using the tubulin stain. Values are directly proportional to cell area.	(Cell Perimeter*Cell Perimeter)/(4*pi*area). Values are directly proportional to cell roundness.	Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the cell edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the cell edge. Values are directly proportional to cell width.			Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the cell edge. Values are directly proportional to cell length.			Cell width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide cells, while lower values represent thinner and longer cells.			Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the nucleus edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the nucleus edge. Values are directly proportional to nuclear width.			Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the nucleus edge.Values are directly proportional to nuclear length.			Nucleus width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide nuclei, while lower values represent thinner and longer nuclei.	Number of pixels in cell segment delimitated using the tubulin stain. Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm area.	(Cytoplasm Perimeter*Cytoplasm Perimeter)/(4*pi*area) Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm roundness.	Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the cytoplasm edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the cytoplasm edge. Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm width.			Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the cytoplasm edge.Valyes are directly proportional to cytoplasm length.			Cytoplasm width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide cytoplasms, while lower values represent thinner and longer cytoplasms.	Membrane region mask was defined as a mask that extends slightly beyond the cytoplasm and encompasses a percentage of the cytoplasm. Values are directly proportional to protrusion area.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Nuclear Region.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Ring Region (The Ring Region was defined as a mask around the nuclear segment contained within the cytoplasm segment i.e:the perinuclear region, and it was calculated as a percentage of the distance from the centroid of the cell to the cytoplasm edge.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Whole Cell	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Cytoplasm Region	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Eroded Nuclear Region	Values above 1 indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas values below 1 indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ.			Positive values indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas negative numbers indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ	Relationship between Cell Area and total YAP/TAZ	Values above 1 indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas values below 1 indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ.	Relationship between nuclear Hoechst intensity and nuclear area.	Positive values indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas negative numbers indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ	Relationship between Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ intensity and Nuclear Area	Relationship between Nuclear Area and Whole Cell YAP/TAZ stain	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the tubulin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the tubulin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of ridges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of valley found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the cytoplasm the  tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Minimum values of a wavelet kernel projected at 8 different angles for the actin cytoskeleton	Maximum values of a wavelet kernel projected at 8 different angles for the actin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the nucleus between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the nucleus between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small  ridgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of edgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of valleys found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  saddles found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of edgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of valleys found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  saddles found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the actin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the actin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  holes found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  valleys found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the nucleus between pixels in proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the nucleus between pixels in  proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of ridges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of valley found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small  ridgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Value is directly proportional to the defined Membrane Region 1 area, which encompasses a thin area of the membrane which starts at the membrane edge.			Value is directly proportional to the defined Membrane Region 2 area, which goes slightly beyond the membrane edge.	1-((Membrane Region 1)/(2*Membrane Region 2)) a high value represents close proximity between cells.	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the elongated, Spindly phenotype.			Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Large, spread, often circular phenotype.	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Triangular phenotype (three protrusions).	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Fan phenotype (asymmetric with nucleus to one side).	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Small, round phenotype.	Number of fields analysed.
																																																																																																																																											
#  Processed Data Files																																																																																																																																											
Processed Data File Name	idr0028-screenC-processed.txt																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data File Description	Wells where the z-score is over 1.5 for each cell shape, the logarithmic of the ratio of nuclear region YAP/TAZ intensity to ring region YAP/TAZ intensity, and sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities normalised to nuclear area for each cell line. The sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities were normalised to nuclear area so as to account for nuclear size. Raw data was normalised to the plate and then Z-scores were calculated using the control well average and standard deviation for each screen.																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data Column Name	Plate	Well	Plate_Well	siRNA Identifier	Gene Identifier	Gene Symbol	Z-score (Spindly)	Z-score (Large, spread)	Z-score (Triangular)	Z-score (Fan)	Z-score (Round, small)	Z-score (High nuclear YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (Low nuclear YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (High total YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (Low total YAP/TAZ)	Has Phenotype	Phenoptye Annotation Level	Phenotype 1	Phenotype 2	Phenotype 3	Phenotype 4	Phenotype 5	Phenotype 6	Phenotype 7	Phenotype 8	Phenotype 9																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Type	location	location	location	reagent identifier	gene identifier	gene symbol	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	other	other	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Annotation Level							well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well			well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Description	The plate the result comes from	The well the result comes from	A combination of the plate and well, to enable linking with the library file.	Name of the siRNA used	The NCIB Entrez Gene Identifier for the target gene	The gene symbol for the target gene	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	Whether there is a phenotype associated with the entity in the row.	The level of entity that is annotated with the phenotype.	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Link To Library File	Plate_Well																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
Screen Number	4																																																																																																																																										
Comment[IDR Screen Name]	idr0028-pascualvargas-rhogtpases/screenD																																																																																																																																										
Screen Data Publisher	University of Dundee																																																																																																																																										
Screen Data DOI	http://dx.doi.org/10.17867/10000104D			
Screen Sample Type	cell
Screen Description	Human RhoGEF/RhoGAP OnTargetplus siRNA screen on triple negative breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231																																																																																																																																										
Screen Size	Plates: 4	5D Images: 43008	Planes: 172032	Average Image Dimension (XYZCT): 667 x 500 x 1 x 4 x 1	Total Tb: 0.05																																																																																																																																						
Screen Example Images																																																																																																																																											
Screen Imaging Method	spinning disk confocal microscopy																																																																																																																																										
Screen Imaging Method Term Source REF	Fbbi																																																																																																																																										
Screen Imaging Method Term Accession	FBbi_00000253																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Type	RNAi screen																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Screen Technology Term Accession	EFO_0007551																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type	primary screen																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Screen Type Term Accession	EFO_0007556																																																																																																																																										
Screen Comments																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																											
"# Library section. The library file should be supplied separately and it should contain  the reagents description including, at the absolute minimum: reagent ID, sequences and position in the layout (= plate + position in the plate)"																																																																																																																																											
Library File Name	idr0028-screenD-library.txt																																																																																																																																										
Library File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Library Type	siRNA library																																																																																																																																										
Library Type Term Source REF	EFO																																																																																																																																										
Library Type Term Accession	EFO_0007564																																																																																																																																										
Library Manufacturer	Dharmacon																																																																																																																																										
Library Version	ON-TARGETPlus																																																																																																																																										
Library Experimental Conditions																																																																																																																																											
Library Experimental Conditions Term Source REF																																																																																																																																											
Library Experimental Conditions Term Accession																																																																																																																																											
Quality Control Description	Pearson Correlations were applied to assess replicate plate reproducibilty and siRNA reproducibility.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Protocols																																																																																																																																											
Protocol Name	growth protocol	HCS library protocol	HCS image acquistion and feature extraction protocol	HCS data analysis protocol																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type	growth protocol	HCS library protocol	HCS image acquistion and feature extraction protocol	HCS data analysis protocol																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type Term Source REF	EFO	EFO	EFO	EFO																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Type Term Accession	EFO_0003789	EFO_0007571	EFO_0007572	EFO_0007573																																																																																																																																							
Protocol Description	We seeded 1000 cells/well of LM2 and MDA-MB-231 cells in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated bovine serum (FBS) and 1% penicillin/streptomyocin. We seeded the cells in 384 well plates and incubated them for 48 hours at 37 C and supplemented with 5% CO2 in humidified incubators.	Overview of RNAi screening methodology. Two human RhoGEF and RhoGAP libraries were used: siGENOME and ONTARGETPlus (Dharmacon). Both libraries were made up of SMARTpools, where each gene is targeted by a pool of 4 different siRNA strands per siRNA. Each siRNA library was arrayed across 2 black, optically clear bottom, 384 well Cell Carrier plates (PerkinElmer). Individual siRNAs were arrayed in duplicate per plate, and each plate was screened in duplicate, resulting in 4 plates per screen per cell line: 1A, 1B, 2A and 2B. Day 0: Plating siRNAs. 40nl (0.08pmol) siRNA from the siGENOME and ONTARGETPlus libraries (stock concentration of 20uM) were arrayed using the acoustic liquid handler Echo 550 prior to transfection and kept at -80 C. Day 1: Reverse transfection. Pre-stamped siRNA plates were thawed at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes prior to use. Subsequently, 5ul of Opti-MEM Reduced Serum Media were added per well. 5 minutes later, 5ul of mix containing Opti-MEM and RNAimax reagent in a 125:1 ratio were added, and plates were spun at 1000 rpm for 1 minute. Plates were incubated at room temperature for 20 minutes, so as to allow siRNA-RNAimax complexes to form. Cells were then seeded at 1000 cells/well (30000 cells/ml) in 30ul DMEM (10% FBS, 1% penicillin/streptomyocin), resulting in a total volume of 40ul per well: 5ul Opti-MEM, 5ul of Opti-MEM and RNAimax mix (125:1) plus 30ul of cells. As positive controls LATS1 (Dharmacon cat # M-004632-00) and YAP (Dharmacon cat # L-012200-00) siRNA were introduced on columns 23 and 24 with a minimum of 4 wells per control per screen. LATS1 siRNA was used as a control for our ability to assess YAP/TAZ localisation, as in the absence of LATS1 YAP/TAZ nuclear localisation is expected to increase14 YAP siRNA was used as a control to assess our ability to monitor both YAP levels and localisation. As a control to assess our ability to transfect cells we used ECT2 siRNA (Dharmacon cat # L-006450-00, # M-006450-00) which results in multinucleate cells. YAP/TAZ nuclear translocation can be sensitive to cell density, and thus some siRNAs might affect YAP/TAZ localisation simply because they reduce cell numbers17. To account for density dependent effects cells were plated at increasing densities on columns 1, 2, 23 and 24. By performing a linear regression, or similar analysis on these samples users can identify the relationship between YAP/TAZ localisation and cell density. However, in these screens presented here no siRNAs had significant effects on cell number.  Mock transfected cells served as our negative controls, due to our previous observation that non-targeting siRNAs result in phenotypic changes (unpublished data).			Automated handling and processing of samples was performed using a Cell::Explorer robot station, using the PlateWorks software (Perkin Elmer). Cells were fixed 48 hours post transfection by addition of 40ul of warm 8% paraformaldehyde (final concentration 4%) for 15 minutes. Cells were then permeabilised with 0.1% Triton-X-100 in PBS for 10 minutes and blocked with 2% BSA for 2 hours. All antibody incubations were performed in solution containing 0.5% BSA, 0.01% Triton-X-100 dissolved in PBS in a 1:1000 ratio. Washes were carried out three fold by rinsing in PBS between steps using a Microplate Washer (Bio Tek). Antibodies were added sequentially to avoid cross-talk, with the primary antibody for YAP/TAZ being added first and left overnight. Staining procedures were continued in the following order with each antibody being left on for an hour and a half: secondary antibody for YAP/TAZ AlexaFluor 647, primary antibody for alpha tubulin, secondary antibody for alpha tubulin AlexaFluor 548, and Phalloidin 488 combined in the same step. Finally the nuclear stain Hoerscht was added for 15 minutes, upon which it was removed and 15ul of PBS were dispensed. All cells were imaged using an automated Opera HCS spinning-disk confocal microscope (Perkin Elmer) with 20x air lens. Four channels were used: Hoechst, Tubulin, YAP/TAZ, Actin. Images were processed and analysed using the Columbus 2.6.0. Software Platform (Perkin Elmer). To identify single cells, nuclei were segmented using Hoechst signal. The cytoplasm was subsequently segmented based on the identified nuclei utilising tubulin intensity. Cells touching the image border were filtered out.129 features describing intensity, morphological, and texture properties were extracted for each cell. Additionally the fraction of neighbouring cells was calculated. All features are given as the average feature value across all single cells for a given well of the screen. Moreover, using a linear classifier scheme we describe the morphological heterogeneity of each gene-depleted population.			As part of initial exploration of the data we identified siRNAs ("hits") that resulted in significantly different: (1) cell shapes; (2) YAP/TAZ ratio (YAP/TAZ activation); (3) and sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities normalised to nuclear area (hereafter referred to as 'total YAP/TAZ'). The sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities were normalised to nuclear area so as to account for nuclear size. Raw data obtained from the analysis performed by Columbus software for each plate, was normalised to each plate. Normalised values were then grouped per screen and then Z-scores were calculated using the control well average and standard deviation for each screen. A threshold of minimum 1.5 was used for selecting hits.																																																																																																																																							
																																																																																																																																											
																																																																																																																																											
# Phenotypes																																																																																																																																											
Phenotype Name	Spindly	Large, spread	Triangular	Fan	Round, small	High nuclear YAP/TAZ	Low nuclear YAP/TAZ	High total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area	Low total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Description	elongated and typically have two protrusions	large area and are often circular	cells with three distinct protrusions	asymmetrically-shaped cells with nucleus to one side	low cell area and high roundness	High nuclear YAP/TAZ	Low nuclear YAP/TAZ	High total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area	Low total YAP/TAZ in nuclear and ring regions normalised to nuclear area																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Score Type	Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation			Automatic raw data, manual Z-score calculation																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Source REF	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO	CMPO																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Name	elongated cell phenotype	increased cell size phenotype	triangular shaped cell phenotype	fan-shaped cell phenotype	decreased cell size phenotype	increased level of polypetide in cell nucleus	decreased level of polypetide in cell nucleus	positive regulation of protein import into nucleus phenotype	negative regulation of protein import into nucleus phenotype																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Accession	CMPO_0000077	CMPO_0000128	CMPO_0000122	CMPO_0000428	CMPO_0000129	CMPO_0000433	CMPO_0000434	CMPO_0000436	CMPO_0000435																																																																																																																																		
Phenotype Term Source REF	CMPO		CMPO		CMPO																																																																																																																																						
Phenotype Term Name	cell with projections		cell with projections		round cell phenotype																																																																																																																																						
Phenotype Term Accession	CMPO_0000071		CMPO_0000071		CMPO_0000118																																																																																																																																						
																																																																																																																																											
# Raw Data Files																																																																																																																																											
Raw Image Data Format	TIFF																																																																																																																																										
Raw Image Organization	There are 2 replicates of 2 x 384 well plates per screen. Total plates per screen: 4. 28 fields were imaged per well.																																																																																																																																										
																																																																																																																																											
# Feature Level Data Files (give individual file details unless there is one file per well)																																																																																																																																											
Feature Level Data File Name	MDA-MB-231_ONTARGETPlus_features.txt																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data File Description	Well averaged values for each feature for each well.																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Feature Level Data Column Name	Plate	Row	Column	Genes	Well Name	Number of Cells selected	Intensity Nucleus - Mean per Well	Nucleus Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Roundness - Mean per Well	Cell Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Cell  Roundness - Mean per Well	Cell Width [um] - Mean per Well	Cell Length [um] - Mean per Well	Cell Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Nucleus  Width [um] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Length [um] - Mean per Well	Nucleus Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Area [um_] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Roundness - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Width [um] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Length [um] - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm  Width to Length Ratio - Mean per Well	Membrane Region (Protrusions Area) [um_] - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ - Mean per Well	Ring Region YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Whole cell YAP/TAZ - Mean per Well	Cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ   - Mean per Well	Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio  - Mean per Well	Log10 of Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio  - Mean per Well	Cell Area to Whole Cell YAP/TAZ   Ratio - Mean per Well	Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear  Intensity to Nuclear Area Ratio - Mean per Well	Log10 of Eroded Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Ring Region YAP/TAZ Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ to Nuclear Area Ratio - Mean per Well	Nuclear Area to Whole Cell YAP/TAZ  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley  0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 0 px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 0 px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Correlation 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Contrast 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Sum Variance 1px  Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Haralick Homogeneity 1px  Tubulin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Gabor Actin Min - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm Gabor Actin Max - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Hoechst- Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 0 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 0 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Tubulin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Correlation 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Contrast 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Sum Variance 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Homogeneity 1 px Tubulin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Correlation 1 px Actin - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Contrast 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Sum Variance 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus Haralick Homogeneity 1 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 0 px Actin - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 1 px Hoechst  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 1 px  Hoechst- Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 1 px  Hoechst - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Dark 1 px Hoechst - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Spot 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Hole 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Edge 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Ridge 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Valley 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Saddle 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Bright 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Cytoplasm SER Dark 1 px Actin   - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Spot 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Hole 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Edge 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Ridge 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Valley 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Saddle 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Actin  - Mean per Well	Nucleus SER Bright 0 px Dark  - Mean per Well	Membrane Region 1 Area [px_] - Mean per Well	Membrane Region 2 Area [px_] - Mean per Well	Neighbour Fraction - Mean per Well	Number of cells classified as Spindly	Number of cells classified as Large	Number of cells classified as Triangular	Number of cells classified as Fan	Number of cells classified as Small, round.	Number of Analyzed Fields
Feature Level Data Column Description	The name of the plate the data comes from	The row position of the well on the plate	The column position of the well on the plate	Gene name or cells for wild-type	Position in plate	Number of cells chosen to analyse post filtering	Hoescht intensity	Number of pixels in nucleus. Values are directly proportional to area.	(Nuclear Perimeter*Nuclear Perimeter)/(4*pi*area) - Values are directly proportional to nuclear roundness.	Number of pixels in cell segment delimitated using the tubulin stain. Values are directly proportional to cell area.	(Cell Perimeter*Cell Perimeter)/(4*pi*area). Values are directly proportional to cell roundness.	Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the cell edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the cell edge. Values are directly proportional to cell width.			Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the cell edge. Values are directly proportional to cell length.			Cell width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide cells, while lower values represent thinner and longer cells.			Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the nucleus edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the nucleus edge. Values are directly proportional to nuclear width.			Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the nucleus edge.Values are directly proportional to nuclear length.			Nucleus width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide nuclei, while lower values represent thinner and longer nuclei.	Number of pixels in cell segment delimitated using the tubulin stain. Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm area.	(Cytoplasm Perimeter*Cytoplasm Perimeter)/(4*pi*area) Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm roundness.	Double the minimum distance of the centre point to the cytoplasm edge, where the centre point is the point which is furthest away from any point on the cytoplasm edge. Values are directly proportional to cytoplasm width.			Maximum shortest path between two points on the edge, where the path is bounded by the cytoplasm edge.Valyes are directly proportional to cytoplasm length.			Cytoplasm width divided by cell length. Bigger values represent wide cytoplasms, while lower values represent thinner and longer cytoplasms.	Membrane region mask was defined as a mask that extends slightly beyond the cytoplasm and encompasses a percentage of the cytoplasm. Values are directly proportional to protrusion area.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Nuclear Region.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Ring Region (The Ring Region was defined as a mask around the nuclear segment contained within the cytoplasm segment i.e:the perinuclear region, and it was calculated as a percentage of the distance from the centroid of the cell to the cytoplasm edge.	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Whole Cell	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Cytoplasm Region	Intensity of YAP/TAZ signal for Eroded Nuclear Region	Values above 1 indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas values below 1 indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ.			Positive values indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas negative numbers indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ	Relationship between Cell Area and total YAP/TAZ	Values above 1 indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas values below 1 indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ.	Relationship between nuclear Hoechst intensity and nuclear area.	Positive values indicate high Nuclear YAP/TAZ, whereas negative numbers indicate higher cytoplasmic YAP/TAZ	Relationship between Nuclear Region YAP/TAZ intensity and Nuclear Area	Relationship between Nuclear Area and Whole Cell YAP/TAZ stain	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the tubulin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the tubulin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of ridges found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of valley found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the cytoplasm the  tubulin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels for the cytoplasm tubulin cytoskeleton	Minimum values of a wavelet kernel projected at 8 different angles for the actin cytoskeleton	Maximum values of a wavelet kernel projected at 8 different angles for the actin cytoskeleton	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the nucleus between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the nucleus between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small  ridgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of edgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridgesfound on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of valleys found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  saddles found on the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of edgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of valleys found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of  saddles found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between neighbouring pixels.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels tubulin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the correlation between neighbouring pixels of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the contrast between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the SumVariance between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the Homogeneity between neighbouring pixels  of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number ofsmall  ridges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the actin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the actin cytoskeleton between pixels in small proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  holes found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  ridges found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of  valleys found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the nucleus.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the nucleus between pixels in proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the nucleus between pixels in  proximity	Values are directly proportional to number of spots found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of holes found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of edges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of ridges found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of valley found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of saddles found on the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the actin cytoskeleton.	Values are directly proportional to number of small spots found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small holes found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small edgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small  ridgesfound on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small valleys found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to number of small saddles found on the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region.	Values are directly proportional to the brightness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Values are directly proportional to the darkness of the section of the actin cytoskeleton found in the segmented nuclear region between pixels in small proximity.	Value is directly proportional to the defined Membrane Region 1 area, which encompasses a thin area of the membrane which starts at the membrane edge.			Value is directly proportional to the defined Membrane Region 2 area, which goes slightly beyond the membrane edge.	1-((Membrane Region 1)/(2*Membrane Region 2)) a high value represents close proximity between cells.	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the elongated, Spindly phenotype.			Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Large, spread, often circular phenotype.	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Triangular phenotype (three protrusions).	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Fan phenotype (asymmetric with nucleus to one side).	Value is directly proportional to the number of cells classified into the Small, round phenotype.	Number of fields analysed.
																																																																																																																																											
#  Processed Data Files																																																																																																																																											
Processed Data File Name	idr0028-screenD-processed.txt																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data File Format	tab-delimited text																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data File Description	Wells where the z-score is over 1.5 for each cell shape, the logarithmic of the ratio of nuclear region YAP/TAZ intensity to ring region YAP/TAZ intensity, and sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities normalised to nuclear area for each cell line. The sum of nuclear region and ring region YAP/TAZ intensities were normalised to nuclear area so as to account for nuclear size. Raw data was normalised to the plate and then Z-scores were calculated using the control well average and standard deviation for each screen.																																																																																																																																										
Processed Data Column Name	Plate	Well	Plate_Well	siRNA Identifier	Gene Identifier	Gene Symbol	Z-score (Spindly)	Z-score (Large, spread)	Z-score (Triangular)	Z-score (Fan)	Z-score (Round, small)	Z-score (High nuclear YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (Low nuclear YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (High total YAP/TAZ)	Z-score (Low total YAP/TAZ)	Has Phenotype	Phenoptye Annotation Level	Phenotype 1	Phenotype 2	Phenotype 3	Phenotype 4	Phenotype 5	Phenotype 6	Phenotype 7	Phenotype 8	Phenotype 9																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Type	location	location	location	reagent identifier	gene identifier	gene symbol	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	data	other	other	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype	phenotype																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Annotation Level							well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well			well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well	well																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Description	The plate the result comes from	The well the result comes from	A combination of the plate and well, to enable linking with the library file.	Name of the siRNA used	The NCIB Entrez Gene Identifier for the target gene	The gene symbol for the target gene	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	The calculated Z-score for this phenotype at the well level	Whether there is a phenotype associated with the entity in the row.	The level of entity that is annotated with the phenotype.	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level	Phenotype at the well level																																																																																																																	
Processed Data Column Link To Library File	Plate_Well																																																																																																																																										
